Now that we've talked
about Fork-Join Task,
we're ready to start
describing the key methods
in its subclasses,
RecursiveAction
and RecursiveTask.
And we'll see that, as you can
see from the class diagram,
RecursiveAction
and RecursiveTask
extend Fork-Join Task.
These two classes
are differentiated
in a very fundamental way.
RecursiveAction does
not return a result,
whereas RecursiveTask does.
That's the main way
in which they differ.
Otherwise, they're
pretty much the same.
As you can see here,
RecursiveAction
extends Fork-Join Task.
But it provides a void
return type, which is really
not a return type at all.
It just says I don't
return anything.
And therefore, it does
not return any values
through its compute method.
The way that both
RecursiveAction
and RecursiveTask do
their computations
is through a method
called compute.
Again, the main difference
is that the compute method
for RecursiveAction
returns void,
whereas the compute
method for RecursiveTask
returns t, where t
is the type that's
been used to parameterize
the recursive action.
Subclasses override
compute in order
to perform the
task's computation.
So that's where all
the fun stuff happens.
They typically are
designed as follows.
This is going to look very
familiar to you by now.
If the data size is below
a certain threshold,
just do the work directly
and do it sequentially.
Don't bother forking anything.
However, if the
data size is large,
split the work up into
multiple smaller sub-tasks--
maybe one, maybe two, maybe n,
depending on your programming
model for Fork-Join Tasks.
And then fork those tasks so
that they can run in parallel.
Remember again, fork doesn't
directly execute them.
It arranges to execute
them by pushing them
onto the deck of the
calling worker thread.
As these smaller
sub-tasks finish,
they can be joined together.
But keep in mind that because
RecursiveAction doesn't
have return values,
joining is simply
a synchronization point, but
not a way to get a result back.
So how could you possibly
use this, you may ask?
How do you get the results
back from RecursiveActions that
don't actually return values?
Well, the secret here is to
have some other data structure
in which the results
are being stored,
such as an array, that's
visible to the compute method.
And so we'll actually
see a cool example
of this in an upcoming
lesson next week
that shows how to do it.
It's really, really cool.
Under the hood, the
ForkJoinPool framework
calls a protected final
method known as exec.
And this exec method
is not intended
to be called by
application developers.
In fact, the compute
method is not
intended to be called by
application developers, either.
Everything is called
by the framework.
Fork and join can be
called by applications,
but not compute or exec.
And instead what
exec does, is when
exec is called by the
Fork-Join framework,
it turns around and dispatches
the compute hook method
to actually execute the task.
This is another classic
example of our good friend
the template method pattern
from the Gang of Four book.
So you can see here
that exec calls compute.
Compute can then be overridden.
Compute is an abstract method.
Exec is a final method.
So exec will call to compute.
And compute can then
dictate the actual behavior
of our RecursiveAction of our
subclass of RecursiveAction.
So as you can see here, just
to reiterate that point,
exec is a template method.
And compute is a hook method.
So that's just classic Gang of
Four template method pattern
terminology and structure.
I always find it
very reassuring when
I look at production
frameworks that I know
and respect that have
been in use for decades
that use the patterns from
the Gang of Four book.
That's just a good feeling.
And keep in mind that the
Fork-Join Task framework,
or Fork-Join framework, was
added, I believe, in Java 7,
which is around 2010.
So it's been in use for a while.
The result from compute--
because there isn't a result--
is not stored.
So there's no result.
It's just ignored.
There's really
nothing to ignore.
And the method exec returns
true, saying it worked.
Let's now turn our
attention to the key methods
in Java RecursiveTask.
As you can see here,
RecursiveTask also
extends Fork-Join Task.
And the main difference
is the compute method
for RecursiveTask
returns a result.
So here's how that is defined.
You can see compute
is an abstract method.
It returns type v, where
v is a value that's
defined in the RecursiveTask
generic signature.
And this, of course, once
again will be the place
that subclasses will override
in order to perform their task's
computation.
So a lot of this discussion
I'm about to go through
will look very
familiar because it's
essentially identical
to RecursiveAction,
with one key difference.
We get a result back.
As before, you typically
program compute
in such a way, where
if the data size is
below some certain threshold,
just do the work directly.
Do the work synchronously.
If the data size is
big, split the work up
into one or more
sub-tasks and fork
them to arrange to
run them in parallel.
And then-- and here's
where things differ a bit--
as the results of these
sub-tasks complete,
the compute method
will join them together
to form a merged result.
And in this particular case,
join actually does
return a value.
So when you join
the method, you'll
get the return value back.
And you can do
something with it.
You can concatenate
it to something.
You can add it to
an accumulator.
You can do whatever
you need to do with it.
That's how you get the
results back from joining.
As before, there's
actually an exec method
that does the heavy lifting.
This is what's called by
the Fork-Join pull framework
to execute the task.
It's a little
different here, though.
As you can see,
when exec is called,
it calls the
compute hook method.
And that stores the result of
compute into a result field.
And then that result field
can be obtained later
when join is called in
order to get the value back.
So this is just ever so
different from RecursiveAction
because we're actually going
to get a result back this time.
And we're not just going to
use this as a synchronization
point.